Documentation/userspace-api/media/v4l/pixfmt-nv12.rst, before:

.. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
.. document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
.. Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software
.. Foundation, with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts
.. and no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of the license is included at
.. Documentation/userspace-api/media/fdl-appendix.rst.
..
.. TODO: replace it to GFDL-1.1-or-later WITH no-invariant-sections

.. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-NV12:
.. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-NV21:

******************************************************
V4L2_PIX_FMT_NV12 ('NV12'), V4L2_PIX_FMT_NV21 ('NV21')
******************************************************


V4L2_PIX_FMT_NV21
Formats with ½ horizontal and vertical chroma resolution, also known as
YUV 4:2:0. One luminance and one chrominance plane with alternating
chroma samples as opposed to ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_YVU420``


Description
===========

These are two-plane versions of the YUV 4:2:0 format. The three
components are separated into two sub-images or planes. The Y plane is
first. The Y plane has one byte per pixel. For ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_NV12``, a
combined CbCr plane immediately follows the Y plane in memory. The CbCr
plane is the same width, in bytes, as the Y plane (and of the image),
but is half as tall in pixels. Each CbCr pair belongs to four pixels.
For example, Cb\ :sub:`0`/Cr\ :sub:`0` belongs to Y'\ :sub:`00`,
Y'\ :sub:`01`, Y'\ :sub:`10`, Y'\ :sub:`11`. ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_NV21`` is
the same except the Cb and Cr bytes are swapped, the CrCb plane starts
with a Cr byte.

If the Y plane has pad bytes after each row, then the CbCr plane has as
many pad bytes after its rows.

**Byte Order.**
Each cell is one byte.


.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0

    * - start + 0:
      - Y'\ :sub:`00`
      - Y'\ :sub:`01`
      - Y'\ :sub:`02`
      - Y'\ :sub:`03`
    * - start + 4:
      - Y'\ :sub:`10`
      - Y'\ :sub:`11`
      - Y'\ :sub:`12`
      - Y'\ :sub:`13`
    * - start + 8:
      - Y'\ :sub:`20`
      - Y'\ :sub:`21`
      - Y'\ :sub:`22`
      - Y'\ :sub:`23`
    * - start + 12:
      - Y'\ :sub:`30`
      - Y'\ :sub:`31`
      - Y'\ :sub:`32`
      - Y'\ :sub:`33`
    * - start + 16:
      - Cb\ :sub:`00`
      - Cr\ :sub:`00`
      - Cb\ :sub:`01`
      - Cr\ :sub:`01`
    * - start + 20:
      - Cb\ :sub:`10`
      - Cr\ :sub:`10`
      - Cb\ :sub:`11`
      - Cr\ :sub:`11`


**Color Sample Location:**

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0

    * -
      - 0
      -
      - 1
      - 2
      -
      - 3
    * - 0
      - Y
      -
      - Y
      - Y
      -
      - Y
    * -
      -
      - C
      -
      -
      - C
      -
    * - 1
      - Y
      -
      - Y
      - Y
      -
      - Y
    * -
    * - 2
      - Y
      -
      - Y
      - Y
      -
      - Y
    * -
      -
      - C
      -
      -
      - C
      -
    * - 3
      - Y
      -
      - Y
      - Y
      -
      - Y

Commit message:

media: videodev2.h: Add a format for column YUV4:2:0 modes
Some of the Broadcom codec blocks use a column based YUV4:2:0 image
format, so add the documentation and defines for both 8 and 10 bit
versions.

Signed-off-by: Dave Stevenson <dave.stevenson@raspberrypi.com>

Documentation/userspace-api/media/v4l/pixfmt-nv12.rst, after:

.. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
.. document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
.. Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software
.. Foundation, with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts
.. and no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of the license is included at
.. Documentation/userspace-api/media/fdl-appendix.rst.
..
.. TODO: replace it to GFDL-1.1-or-later WITH no-invariant-sections

.. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-NV12:
.. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-NV21:

********************************************************************************
V4L2_PIX_FMT_NV12 ('NV12'), V4L2_PIX_FMT_NV21 ('NV21'), V4L2_PIX_FMT_NV12_COL128
********************************************************************************


V4L2_PIX_FMT_NV21
Formats with ½ horizontal and vertical chroma resolution, also known as
YUV 4:2:0. One luminance and one chrominance plane with alternating
chroma samples as opposed to ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_YVU420``


Description
===========

These are two-plane versions of the YUV 4:2:0 format. The three
components are separated into two sub-images or planes. The Y plane is
first. The Y plane has one byte per pixel. For ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_NV12``, a
combined CbCr plane immediately follows the Y plane in memory. The CbCr
plane is the same width, in bytes, as the Y plane (and of the image),
but is half as tall in pixels. Each CbCr pair belongs to four pixels.
For example, Cb\ :sub:`0`/Cr\ :sub:`0` belongs to Y'\ :sub:`00`,
Y'\ :sub:`01`, Y'\ :sub:`10`, Y'\ :sub:`11`. ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_NV21`` is
the same except the Cb and Cr bytes are swapped, the CrCb plane starts
with a Cr byte.

If the Y plane has pad bytes after each row, then the CbCr plane has as
many pad bytes after its rows.

``V4L2_PIX_FMT_NV12_COL128`` is the tiled version of
``V4L2_PIX_FMT_NV12`` with the image broken down into 128 pixel wide columns of
Y followed by the associated combined CbCr plane.
The normal bytesperline is effectively fixed at 128. However the format
requires knowledge of the stride between columns, therefore the bytesperline
value has been repurposed to denote the number of 128 byte long lines between
the start of each column.

**Byte Order.**
Each cell is one byte.


.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0

    * - start + 0:
      - Y'\ :sub:`00`
      - Y'\ :sub:`01`
      - Y'\ :sub:`02`
      - Y'\ :sub:`03`
    * - start + 4:
      - Y'\ :sub:`10`
      - Y'\ :sub:`11`
      - Y'\ :sub:`12`
      - Y'\ :sub:`13`
    * - start + 8:
      - Y'\ :sub:`20`
      - Y'\ :sub:`21`
      - Y'\ :sub:`22`
      - Y'\ :sub:`23`
    * - start + 12:
      - Y'\ :sub:`30`
      - Y'\ :sub:`31`
      - Y'\ :sub:`32`
      - Y'\ :sub:`33`
    * - start + 16:
      - Cb\ :sub:`00`
      - Cr\ :sub:`00`
      - Cb\ :sub:`01`
      - Cr\ :sub:`01`
    * - start + 20:
      - Cb\ :sub:`10`
      - Cr\ :sub:`10`
      - Cb\ :sub:`11`
      - Cr\ :sub:`11`


**Color Sample Location:**

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0

    * -
      - 0
      -
      - 1
      - 2
      -
      - 3
    * - 0
      - Y
      -
      - Y
      - Y
      -
      - Y
    * -
      -
      - C
      -
      -
      - C
      -
    * - 1
      - Y
      -
      - Y
      - Y
      -
      - Y
    * -
    * - 2
      - Y
      -
      - Y
      - Y
      -
      - Y
    * -
      -
      - C
      -
      -
      - C
      -
    * - 3
      - Y
      -
      - Y
      - Y
      -
      - Y
